My comments to you today
are based on 2 Peter 1:19.
There it states:
“We have the prophetic word
made more sure.”
Yes, we are fortified by the prophetic word.
Actually, there is no one on earth today
that is not affected by prophecy,
even if he is not aware of it.
What is a prophecy?
The Hebrew term for prophecy is not limited
to predicting or foretelling
something in the future.
It also includes divine commands
or inspired instruction.
The Samaritan woman at the well
recognized Jesus as a prophet
because he revealed, not future things,
but things about her past
that he could not have known
except by divine power.
The source of all true prophecy
is Jehovah God.
At 2 Peter 1:21
it is said of prophecy
that “men spoke from God
as they were moved by holy spirit.”
In addition to transmitting prophecy
by holy spirit,
Jehovah occasionally communicated
such messages by means of angels.
One outstanding prophet was Daniel.
In about 536 before our Common Era,
Daniel recorded a vision
involving world powers
having interaction with God’s servants.
Turn with me to Daniel 8:21, 22.
Daniel’s vision was
of animals representing governments.
Note this remarkable prophecy
at Daniel 8:21, 22:
“The hairy male goat
stands for the king of Greece;
“and the great horn that was between its eyes
“stands for the first king.
“As for the horn that was broken,
“so that four stood up instead of it,
“there are four kingdoms from his nation
that will stand up, but not with his power.”
Interestingly, the Bible
specifically named Greece.
The ruler under which Greece
became a world power
in relation to God’s people,
like a great horn,
was the Macedonian Alexander the Great.
Alexander’s rulership was short-lived.
He died young
in the year 323 before our Common Era
—two hundred thirteen years
after Daniel wrote his book.
Jehovah’s angel had told Daniel
that there would be four kingdoms
from his nation that will stand up
in place of the Grecian empire.
And chapter 11, verse 4, specifically states
that the four regions
would not go to his descendants.
Do the historical facts
support these prophecies?
Yes.
Alexander’s two sons, from different women,
Heracles and Alexander IV,
both were killed
before they reached adulthood.
Isn’t it astounding
how precisely the prophecy came true
that the rulership would not be passed on
to Alexander’s posterity?
But the prophecy also foretold
that Alexander’s empire
would be divided up into four kingdoms.
Did that happen?
Yes!
One source listed
72 different military leaders
under Alexander the Great,
but the prophecy said only four
would eventually rule in his place.
After Alexander’s death,
there were constant fierce battles
between these military leaders.
But finally, just four dynasties resulted
—just as the Bible prophesied.
One was that of General Cassander,
son of Antipater, in Macedonia and Greece.
The second was that of General Lysimachus
in Asia Minor and European Thrace.
Third was the one
of General Seleucus Nicator,
the conqueror who secured
Babylon, Media, Syria, Persia,
and the provinces eastward
into the Indus River.
And finally, the fourth was that
of General Ptolemy Soter, son of Lagus,
who secured Egypt, Libya, Arabia,
Palestine, and Celesyria [Coele-Syria].
These four proclaimed themselves king
around 305 before our Common Era,
18 years after the death of Alexander.
The prophecy was so detailed,
its fulfillment is fascinating proof
of divine inspiration.
Does this not strengthen
your faith and trust in the Bible?
Here’s another point:
What is the first prophecy in the Bible?
The first prophecy ever
was the one uttered
by Jehovah at Genesis 3:15.
It foretold that the offspring
of his figurative wife,
the heavenly part of his organization,
would crush Satan and his offspring,
bringing liberation to mankind.
To identify this offspring,
primarily Christ Jesus,
Jehovah arranged
for many prophecies pointing to him.
Revelation 19:10 says:
“The witness concerning Jesus
is what inspires prophecy,”
or literally ‘is the spirit of prophecy.’
What does that mean?
That all inspired
Messianic messages from God,
proclaimed by his servants
pointed to his Son.
At Luke 24:44 Jesus himself said
that all the prophecies
concerning the Messiah
must be fulfilled.
Let’s consider some outstanding prophecies
about Jesus and their fulfillment.
One was that he would be born
of the tribe of Judah,
from the family of David, the son of Jesse.
More than 700 years before Jesus was born,
Micah foretold in chapter 5
that he would be born in Bethlehem.
The prophecy speaks
of “Bethlehem Ephrathah.”
Why is the designation “Ephrathah” important?
Because there existed another Bethlehem
in the territory of Zebulun.
It has been identified with Beit Lahm
about 7 miles, or 11 kilometers,
west-northwest of Nazareth.
Again, the prophecy was extremely specific.
And amazingly,
Isaiah prophesied
he would be born of a virgin.
What human would ever think of such a thing?
Daniel chapter 9 foretold that the Messiah
would arrive 483 years
after the command to rebuild Jerusalem.
This proved to be true
in the year 29 of our Common Era
when Jesus was baptized.
Zechariah chapter 11
foretold that the Messiah
would be betrayed for “30 pieces of silver.”
Chapter 12 says
that his body would be pierced.
It was foretold that the Messiah
would die a sacrificial death for our sins
and be buried in the tomb of a rich man.
Furthermore, prophecy proclaimed
that he would be in the grave
for parts of three days
and then be resurrected.
What about the argument
that Jesus deliberately arranged matters
so that the events in his life
would fit all these prophecies?
What do you think?
Could Jesus have arranged
to be born of the tribe of Judah,
in the town of David’s birth, Bethlehem?
His mother, Mary, lived in Nazareth.
Could he tell her, while in the womb,
‘Please take me to Bethlehem
because the scriptures say
I must be born there?’
Obviously, the very start
of his life on earth
was beyond his control.
Furthermore, could Jesus have arranged
for the priests to pay Judas
the 30 pieces of silver to betray him?
Could he have arranged
that his enemies spit in his face?
that the Roman authorities
sentence him to be nailed to a stake?
that the soldiers
cast lots for his garments?
Or that, while piercing his side
with a spear,
they not follow the custom
of breaking any of his bones?
Could the prophecies, just mentioned,
have been fulfilled by mere chance?
One Bible scholar likened this process
to the assembling of a statue
made of individual pieces of marble.
Imagine that many men
who had never communicated
with one another
each brought a piece of marble into a room.
If those pieces
fit together to form a perfect statue,
you would logically conclude
that there must have been
someone behind the scenes
who had drawn the specifications
and sent an assignment to each man.
Fitting together like the pieces of a statue,
every Messianic prophecy would provide
a vital piece of information
about the Messiah.
What, then, would be the likelihood
of all the prophecies about the Messiah
being fulfilled by coincidence in one person?
In an interview,
researcher Louis Lapides said:
“Someone did the math and figured out
“that the probability
of just eight prophecies
“being fulfilled [by Jesus]
is one chance
in one hundred million billion.”
To arrive at the figure
mentioned by this scholar,
by addition rather than by multiplication,
you would have to write down one million
and then copy that figure a billion times.
Putting those odds in perspective,
the scholar stated:
‘If you took
one hundred million billion silver dollars,
‘they would cover
the state of Texas in the United States
to a depth of 2 feet, or .6 meters.’
Texas has a land area
of 266,807 square miles,
or 690,000 square kilometers.
Imagine that huge area covered
in silver dollars up to a depth of 2 feet.
Now what ‘if you put a mark on just one
‘of those silver dollars
and then had a blindfolded person
‘wander the whole state
and bend down
‘to pick up just one coin?
What would be the chance that he choose
the only coin that had been marked?’
The scholar then stated that those
are “the same odds that anybody in history
could have fulfilled
just eight of the [Messianic] prophecies.”
Yet, Jesus fulfilled not just eight
but many more Bible prophecies.
This is overwhelming proof
of divine inspiration.
Second Corinthians 1:20 says:
‘No matter how many the promises of God are,
they have become “yes” by means of Jesus.’
What does this mean for us?
It means that Jesus was actually
the promised Messiah who was sent by God.
As such, he taught the truth.
If we believe him and follow him,
then we too have the truth.
There’s no doubt
about the divine origin of Bible prophecies.
But Bible prophecies
deal not only with past events,
some prophecies are having
remarkable fulfillment
right now before our eyes!
This gives us strong assurance
that the few outstanding prophecies
about the end of this wicked system of things
and the Paradise on earth to come
will also be fulfilled in the near future
without any possibility of failure.
As true Christians,
we are engaged in a prophetic work.
This is, not in the sense
that we initiate new prophecies,
but in the sense that we proclaim prophecies
already written down in the Bible.
At Pentecost 33 of our Common Era
when holy spirit
was poured out on 120 disciples,
both men and women,
Peter quoted the prophet Joel saying:
“‘In the last days,’
God says, ‘I will pour out
“‘some of my spirit on every sort of flesh,
and your sons
and your daughters will prophesy.’”
What did the 120 disciples do at Pentecost?
There is no indication
that they foretold new events,
but Acts 2:11 says:
“We hear them speaking . . .
about the magnificent things of God.”
This was called prophesying.
Today, too, whether brothers
or sisters or children,
we share in a prophetic work,
speaking about
“the magnificent things of God.”
We speak about what he has done,
what he is doing now,
and what he will do in the near future.
What a privilege!
Having seen many prophecies fulfilled,
we have the prophetic word made more sure.
And we are telling people
about the prophetic word
in order to fortify their faith too.
Yes, we do it to help them to get to the road
to everlasting life and to develop
an intimate relationship
with our great God, Jehovah.